# How to create repositiory and commit using command line

* First of all cd into your desktop: ``` cd Desktop ```
* Create a new folder called story: ``` mkdir story ```
* Create a new file called chapter1.txt: ``` touch story ```
* Write some content into that file using nano``` nano chapter1.txt ``` or you can open it using text editor using ``` gedit chapter1.txt ```
* Save the content in nano using ``` ctrl+x ```and exit
* Create a git local repository and start tracking some of the file changes, to initialize git: ``` git init ```, git is going to be used to track all your changes, to commit your changes and perform version control.
* Currently you are inside the working directory which is the ``` story directory ```
* In order to just start tracking the changes of my files. For example chapter1.txt then I need to add this file to a staging area and staging area is basically a intermediate place where you can pick and choose which files inside your working directory you want to commit. to see what's currently inside my staging area we can use the ``` git status ``` command and it shows us that there are untracked files which will be shown in red and this is something that is simply inside my working directory.
* Now you can see that chapter1.txt is in red color, that means it is yet not in staging area and to add it in staging area and to start tracking changes in it I have to use the command ``` git add filename ``` which in our case would be ``` git add chapter1.txt ```
* Now hit enter and now if you will try to see the git status using ``` git status ``` then you can see that chapter1.txt file is now added as new file, that does mean it is in staging area and it is ready to be committed.
* Now commit this file under version control using ``` git commit -m "Complete chapter 1"```, we are using -m for message, this is really important part, it is something that helps you keep track of what changes you have made in each commit. So when you create a new save point you want to be as explicit as possible about what changes were made between the last save point and this current save point.

So for our initial commit we can use something very simple like "Initial commit" and this shows that this is our starting point, or we can use "Complete chapter 1". Note that writting commit messages in present tense is the best practice.

Let us go hit enter, now this is our first commit

* You can check what commits you have made using ``` git status ```
