* Create a directory called my-express-server and CD into that directory
* Then inside that project folder, create a new file called server.js
* Initialize NPM by setting the starting point as a server.js
* Now we have to install express using command ``` npm install express --save ```, ``` save ```basically adds express into your packages.json under the dependencies.
* But this command was for earlier versions, right now you don't need to write the save, you can just write ``` npm install express ``` and you are done 
* Now after installing the express, you have to require the express
* Now we will go to the server.js and and will take any example and will require the express for that example and keep in mind, if you will declare const variable and you don't want to compiler to throw a warning then you have to add this comment ``` jshint esversion:6 ```
* Now we're going to create a new constant called Express and we're going to require Express like this ```javascript const express = require("express"); ```
* create a new constant called app and this is simply a function that represents the express module and we bind that to the word app.you can use anything, but app word is generally used so that when other programmers read it then they will came to know what it is all about. the word app refers to the express module. ```javascript const app = express; ```
* Now let us use one of the methods of express called listen. And this tells it to listen on a specific port for any HTTP requests that get sent to our server, let us choose the port number 3000 
```javascript app.listen(3000); ```
* now we have created our first server, when we'll run it using command ``` node server.js ``` we can see that it would look like that your system got hanged but it is working and the system is trying to listen to the port 3000, now you can check this by replacing the code ```javascript app.listen(3000); ``` by 
```javascript
     app.listen(3000, function(){
     console.log("Server started on port 3000");
});
 ```
 then this will log the above message on the console when this program will run.
 Now when you'll go to the ``` localhost:3000 ``` on your browser then you'll find the message ``` Cannot GET / ```, it means that when our browser is trying to get in touch with our server on the port 3000 it's not able to get anything back.
 
* Now we have to figure out how can we write some code so that our server responds when a browser is making a request to our server. We have to send the browsers some information to display. 
